---
layout: post
title: "PTCE"
date: 2019-05-10
categories: Personal
---
(This post is a work in progress.)

In early 2019, I got started as a pharmacy technician. Over time, I've learned that starting a brand-new job brings a lot of growing pains as I have struggled with learning the ropes. Now, two years and one pandemic later, I have compiled some resources to help new technicians get started with this job and prepare for the Pharmacy Technician Certification Exam. This post explains a bit about my process with studying for the exam and outline some resources that might be helpful for others.

## Tools/Resources

1. *Books.* I downloaded two books from Library Genesis (LibGen): "Pharmacy Technician Exam: Complete Test Preparation (3rd Edition)" by Learning Express and "Pharmacy Technician Exam: Certification and Review" by McGraw Hill Education.
2. *Websites.* I used the /r/PharmacyTechnician subreddit to find a handful of helpful tools and websites. www.pharmacy-tech-study.com was incredibly helpful with outlining the test and its subsections.
3. *Apps.* I started with using Khan Academy to brush up on the basic algebra used on the test. After deliberating over spending $15 for a full-version of an app, I finally caved in and bought the PTCB PocketPrep app on Google play. Both Khan Academy and PocketPrep are available online as well (which is helpful both on-the-go) and when I'm not at work.

I started with reviewing math sections. Proportional equations and basic algebra are needed and (as someone who has rarely ever stepped outside of the US) conversions between metric and customary units were tricky memorizing at first.

As I continued working in the pharmacy, the top 200 drugs and the "fast-movers" in the pharmacy became easier and easier to memorize. I made flashcards using the top 200 on www.pharmacy-tech-study.com to refresh my knowledge of brand-name and generic medications and their most-common usage.

-- Updated 6/13/2021
